CREATE REALLOC

1. background
2. map (walls + start + exit + collectibles)
3. player

Pseudocode
1. Read and parse the map
Open map.ber file.
Read the contents of the file into a buffer.
Split the buffer into lines and store them in a 2D array (representing the map).

2. Validate the map
Check if the map is rectangular:
Every row must have the same length.

Check if the map is surrounded by walls:
First and last row must be all '1'.
First and last character of each row must be '1'.

Check for required components:
Exactly 1 player start 'P'.
Exactly 1 exit 'E'.
At least 1 collectible 'C'.
Display error if any requirement is not met.

3. Check for a valid path
Create a copy of the map for pathfinding.
Use Flood Fill algorithm:
Start at the player’s starting position 'P'.

Recursively explore neighboring cells:
Stop if you hit a wall or an already visited cell.
Check if all collectibles 'C' and the exit 'E' are reachable.
If the path is invalid, display an error.

4. Render the map
Load textures for:
Wall ('1')
Collectible ('C')
Free space ('0')
Exit ('E')
Player ('P')

Loop through the map array:
Place the corresponding texture at the correct position on the window.

5. Start the game loop
Register key hooks for movement.

Handle window closing.
Start the MLX loop.



Map checklist

Parse the map
When parsing the map you can already check some errors before even going further

Does the map file exist ?

Is the map rectangular ?
	All the lines should be the same length.

Is there something in the map file ?

Is the map enclosed in walls ?
	Check the first and last lines and columns, they should all be 1.

Is there only one exit ?
	Simply count how many E you find on the map.


Is there only one start position ?
	Simply count how many P you find on the map.


Is there at least one collectibles ?
	Simply count how many C you find on the map.

Is the exit accessible from the start position?
Are all the collectibles accessible from the start position?

if (all_collectables_collected && exit_count == 1)
	return map_valid;
if (on_wall)
	return map_invalid;
if (on_collectable)
	collectables++;
if (on_exit)
	exits++;
replace_current_position_with_wall;
if (one_of_the_four_adjacent_directions_is_possible)
	return map_valid;
return map_invalid;

Game checklist

Create a window using MLX.
	Create the required structure to store all the necessary information.

Load all the required sprites (images) for your game and store them into memory.

Create the different hooks.
	key_handler
	mouse_handler (if necessary)
	close_handler, this is a hook on the red cross that closes the program correctly
	loop_hook (=> you game loop)


Render checklist

Draw the background.

Draw the not movable parts of the map.

Draw the player.


Key handler
key handler mainly used to call update_player_position function when WASD is pressed
or to close the program correctly when pressing ESC key.


Is the requested new position a Wall ?
	if yes, do nothing. subject says player can't go through walls

Is the requested new position inside the map?
	if no, do nothing. shouldn't happen since enclosed map but you never know.

Is the requested new position a Collectible ?
	if yes, update the collected items counter and check
		check if all collectibles have been collected
			if yes, unlock the exit
		update map 2D array and replace collectible by floor tile so not drawn in next iteration of the game loop.

If the requested new position is not a wall, a collectible, nor outside the map, simply set the player position to the requested new position.
Is the next move valid?
Does the next move cause a special event
	(either winning the game, collecting a collectable, or in the case of a bonus, hitting an enemy)?

We found some segfaults:
With a map with only 1 wall in it and nothing else,
when there are no wolves and we close the map through ESC or close.
When there is no collectible but there is a valid path, the error message can be more clear.
We talked about the difference of return values in the main function and other functions, EXIT_SUCCESS and when to return 0 or 1.
When there is no P, no E or no C, the program continues and later segfaults. Handle this in the map validation. You could also check the size of the map earlier.
When the player has to go through the end to get to the collectable, I think this map has no valid path.
When a wolf is temporarily blocking the road, I think a map should still be valid.
